Add definition for plain text (#1800)
nostr-protocol/nips: 27.md

NIP-27
======

Nostr Unassuming Markup Language (NUML)
---------------------------------------

`draft` `mandatory`

Unless explicitly specified otherwise, text content in nostr events MUST follow the guidelines below for balancing human readability and embedded links. Client MAY parse and display content to improve the aesthetics of displayed content.

# Recognized Formatting

- A `>` at the beginning of a line followed by a single space MAY be used to indicate quotations

> - A `#` at the beginning of a word MAY be used to indicate a topic and SHOULD have a corresponding `t` tag

Reviewer: I wonder if we should clarify that a "topic" is a hashtag and not a chapter or section as it is on Markdown.

- A `$` at the beginning of a word MAY be used to indicate a stock ticker
- Matched `*` characters within a single line MAY be used to indicate emphasis
- Matched `:` characters around a single word MAY be used to indicate emojis (see [NIP 30](./30.md))
- Single-backticks with no language tag MAY be used for inline code blocks
- Triple-backticks with no language tag MAY be used for multi-line code blocks
- Unordered lists MUST be one level deep, contain only one line, and SHOULD use the `-` character

> - Ordered lists MUST be one level deep, contain only one line, and MUST be sequentially numbered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ordered lists MUST be one level deep, starting with a number `[0-9]+` and a `.`, a ` ` space, and contain only one line. Out-of-order numbers SHOULD be rendered as such.
```

## Example

```
> This is a multiline quote
>
> And it ends here

#bitcoin $BTC *emphasis* :custom_emoji: `inline code`

- This
- is
- an
- unordered
- list

1. This
2. is
3. an
4. ordered
5. list
```

# Embedding References

> URLs (excluding base64 encoded image data), [NIP 19](./19.md) nostr entities, prefixed with `nostr:`, and [NIP 73](./73.md) external content ids MAY be embedded in NUML `content`.

Reviewer: We should add that NIP-92's `imeta` are a SHOULD (maybe MUST?) for the format.

Clients MAY display these references as-is, or they MAY use special handling when rendering them. When rendering references:

- Inline references SHOULD be handled differently from references placed on their own line.
- References on their own line MAY be rendered by embedding a representation of them (an image, video, card, audio player, etc).
- Domain names without schema or path (e.g. `nytimes.com`) SHOULD be rendered as text.

When publishing content:

> - A [NIP 18](./18.md) `q` tag pointing to any `nostr:nevent1...` or `nostr:naddr1...` references MAY be included if filtering by quoted entity is desired.

Reviewer: Reusing tag names with different formats is very common on Nostr. I do think it is important to redefine their format in every NIP. Otherwise, we won't know which `q` and `p` tag we are talking about.

Author: I disagree, I don't see how a reference to NIP 18 leads to ambiguity
